# **Momentary Push Buttons to Switches** Library (mpbToSwitch)
## An Arduino-ESP32 library that builds physical electric switches replacements out of simple push buttons.  
By using just a push button (a.k.a. momentary switches or momentary buttons) the classes implemented in the library will manage the sensing of different parameters to **simulate the behavior of standard electromechanical switches**. Those parameters include presses, timings, counters or secondary inputs as needed.

The push button state is updated independently by a standard FreeRTOS timer (or ESP-RTOS in this case), that keeps the ON/OFF state of the objects created. The timer setup is managed by in-class methods, including the possibility to pause, resume or end the timer of each object independently of the others.  
Each class offers a wide range of methods to set, read and modify every significant aspect of each switch type simulated, and the signal received from the push button is debounced for a correct behavior of the event processing.  

The benefits of the use of those simulated switches/objects are not just economical, as push buttons come in a wide range of prices and qualities. In a lighting automation project, for example, detecting trough the daily use that an installed switch was not the best choice when a physical switch is involved the, correction to a best suited kind of switch requires the change of the switch unit: buying a different one, uninstalling the first, maybe modifying the cabling, installing the second... in this case it's just about changing the class of the object or modifying the instantiation parameters if needed and the switch is already changed. Want to keep the light on longer? Just a parameter. Want to turn off the pilot light because it bothers? Another parameter.  

### The library implements -at this moment- the following switches: ###  
* **Debounced Momentary Button**  (a.k.a. Momentary switch, a.k.a. Pushbutton), keeps the ON state since the moment the signal is stable (debouncing process) and until the moment the switch is released. It's implemented in the **DbncdMPBttn** class.
* **Debounced Delayed Momentary Button**, keeps the ON state since the moment the signal is stable (debouncing process), plus a delay added, and until the moment the push button is released. The reasons to add the delay are design related an are usually used to avoid unintentional presses, or to give some equipment (load) that needs time between repeated activations the benefit of the pause. If the push button is released before the delay configured no press is registered at all. The delay time in this class as in the other that implement it, can be zero (0). It's implemented in the **DbncdDlydMPBttn** class.  
* **Time Voidable Momentary Button**, keeps the ON state since the moment the signal is stable (debouncing process), plus a delay added, and until the moment the push button is released, or until a preset time in the ON state is reached. Then the switch will return to the Off position until the push button is released and pushed back. This kind of switches are used to activate limited resources related devices, and a physical switch blocking is highly undesired. Water valves, door unlocking mechanisms, hands-off security mechanisms, defrosting heating devices are some of the usual uses for these switches. It's implemented in the **TmVdblMPBttn** class.  
* **Toggle switch** (a.k.a. alternate, a.k.a. latched), keeps the ON state since the moment the signal is stable (debouncing process), and keeps the ON state after the push button is released and until it is pressed once again. So this simulates a simple On-Off switch like the ones used to turn a room light on or off. It's implemented in the **LtchMPBttn** class.  
* **Timer toggled** (a.k.a. staircase timer switch), keeps the ON state since the moment the signal is debounced, and keeps the state during a set time, the switch time is set at instantiation, and can be modified through the provided methods. The switch implementation gives the option to allow to reset the timer before it gets to the end, the option to give a warning when the time is close to the end through a second output (remaining time is defined as a percentage of the total time and configurable), and the possibility to keep the warning signal on while the switch is off, just like the light hint in a staircase timer switch. It's implemented in the **TmLtchMPBttn** class.  
* **External released toggle** (a.k.a. Emergency latched), keeps the ON state since the moment the signal is debounced, and until an external signal is received. This kind of switch is used when an "abnormal situation" demands the push of the switch on but a higher authority is needed to reset it to Off from a different signal source. Fire, smoke or intrusion alarms are some examples of the use of this switch. As the external release signal can be physical or logical generated it can be implemented to be received from a switch or a remote signal of any usual kind. It's implemented in the  **XtrnUnltchMPBttn** class.    
* ### More switches classes are already under development to be added.###

The timer will periodically check the input pins associated to the objects and refresh the object input situation. The classes provide a callback function to keep the behavior of the objects updated, a valid approach is to create a task for each object to repeatedly refresh the status in an unattended fashion. Examples are provided for each of the classes, usually as pairs in each example to show possible interactions between different objects, the possible implementations with tasks or with a refreshing mechanism int the loop() (loopTask).  
The object input status checking can be paused, restarted and even ended. If the object's status checking is ended the timer entry will be deleted, to release resources.
